recently it feels like everyone is
talking about Poland Poland Poland
Poland was Poland it's safe to say that
Poland is making some serious moves in
the world with a stable diverse economy
a new interesting aim and technology and
a serious investment in military
power Poland has gone from being a gray
and poor Place filled with war and
Invasion and being pretty much erased
from maps to a nation that not only
survived but thre into a country others
now look at With Envy but how did this
happen and most importantly what do you
even know about Poland the time has come
to explore the ins and outs of this
nation so this is Poland
[Music]
explained Poland is located in the heart
of Europe neighboring seven countries
going clockwise from the north east
there's the Russian exclave of
kaliningrad then Lithuania Belarus
Ukraine Slovakia Czech Republic and
Germany with these countries they share
a total land border of
2,865 KM the longest of which is with
cha at 699
km Poland covers a total area of roughly
312 Square km where about 8,000 of those
are water areas with a total Coastline
of 440 km this put the country in the
71st spot in the world when looking at
the country area and to put that size in
perspective it's about twice the size of
the US state of Georgia and slightly
smaller than New Mexico the terrain is
mostly flat with some mountains along
the southern border against Slovakia and
this is also where we find the highest
point of the nation ruzi which stands at
2,499 M the lowest point is on the
complete opposite side near rasi El
blaski and is actually at -2 M the
largest lake is lak sidari while the
largest body of water when looking at
the full size is the Lagoon that is
shared with Germany
on the Polish side it's called salv
shensi while it's called stattin half on
the German side the longest river is
wisla with 1,213 KM and is shared with
both belus and Ukraine about 30% of the
country is covered in forests and 48% of
agricultural lands with some of the
natural resources of Poland being just
arable lands and also coal sulfur
natural gas copper and silver the
climate of the nation is ter tempate
with cold moderatly severe Winters and
Mild Summers whereas in most places the
weather can occasionally reach high
temperatures in the summer and low ones
in the winter but when looking at the
average temperatures it's still
considering mild and moderate the
population is roughly 38 million people
which puts them at the 39th spot in the
world just below Canada and most of
these people live in either the northern
Coastal area in the city of Gdansk the
southern part and the City of CCO or in
the cities in the cental areas such as
lods and Warsaw the last mentioned city
is also the capital of the country and
holds about 1.8 million people of the
total population the median age of this
population is like most European
countries kind of high 41.9 years to be
exact and with that they ranked at the
39th spot in the world so clearly the
majority of the population is in the age
span between 15 and 64 years old
14.53% is 14 or younger while 20.6% is
65 years or older now the population
growth rate isn't something Poland does
very well as they have one of the lowest
growth rates in the entire world in 2023
this number is estimated to be a
negative
0.28% meaning the population actually
shrinks instead of grow one reason for
this might be the low birth rate of the
country which is just 8.31 birds for
every 1,000 population or to simplify
even further one 1.41 children born for
every woman in the country another
reason might be the high death rate of
the country which is 10.75 deaths per
1,000 population the 27th highest in the
world why that is it's hard to say
perhaps it's because the government
focuses on other areas than health as
they spend roughly 6.5% of the country's
GDP on health related matters or perhaps
it has something to do with a country's
love for alcohol a study from the World
Health organization found that the
Polish people on average consume around
11 L of pure alcohol per year which
roughly translates to 12 120 bottles of
wine or maybe it's because of their
tobacco usage even though they're not by
any means the worst when it comes to
this 24% of the population still uses
tobacco in some
form but it's most likely not an
overweight issue as this isn't a major
concern in the nation although it's also
growing as it does in many parts of the
world and considering all this the
Polish people still have a fairly decent
life expectancy at 79 years an age that
puts them at the 67th spot in the world
when it comes to educating its
population Poland usually spends around
5% of GDP on this matter and since 2019
they've been closing in on this 5% again
after a couple of years of spending
closer to 4% and the literacy rate is
very high in the country with 99.8% of
the population being able to read and
write right the Republic of Poland is
divided into 16 provinces it sits in the
UTC plus one time zone the official
language is Polish and the National
Anthem is called mazur daeso the chief
of state is President andrees Duda and
he has been in that position since
August 6th 2015 when he received 51.5%
of the votes he then got reelected in
2020 with 51% of the votes and the head
of government is prime minister matios
moravi the flag of Poland consists of
two stripes of red and white and their
national symbol is a white crown Eagle
the white Under flag is said to
represent this Eagle while the red at
the bottom is the field of the coat of
arms as mentioned at the start Poland
has a well Diversified economy that has
proven to be a good concept for high
growth as it has been one of the most
resilient economies in the European
Union even during tough times and one of
the key reasons to this almost constant
growth is Poland's ability to figure out
how to grow in various stages of their
history first of all they managed to
capitalize on the old communist Legacy
of Industry which they then used to
attract investments from the West that
helped them scale up and increase the
production of goods within the country
borders this later made it possible to
join the global economy of imports and
exports by sending that Goods to other
nations and taking a profit in
return and now most recently they have
shifted Focus again into becoming a
major player in the tech scene something
big Tech is starting to notice
and as of 2022 companies like Google
Samsung Facebook and Amazon all have
established bases in Poland when looking
closer at actual numbers and more
specifically their purchasing power
Poland is ranked 19th in the world with
roughly 1.6 trillion us and in GDP
growth rate and GDP per capita they sit
around the 60th place in the world and
we're looking at how much reserves of
Foreign Exchange and gold Poland sits on
they're at the 2 first spot in the world
with a value of $166 billion
US they have a labor force of about 18
million people and yet one of the lowest
unemployment rates in the world at just
2.6% and the country has come a long way
in the transition from the former Soviet
era of Industry work into a more
service-based economy and now about 58%
of the people work in the service
industry they export roughly $411
billion US worth of goods each year and
import goods worth 380 billion being the
20th strongest country in both exports
and imports in the world their biggest
partner in both imports and exports is
Germany which stands for about the forge
in both
segments so they're a strong economy and
they continue to grow but this hasn't
always been the case as Poland has been
under heavy pressure throughout history
and even got erased from the map for
over 100 years the terms Poland and
polls first appear in the late 10th
century Esco the 1 is considered the
first ruler of Poland and he adopted
Catholic Christianity as the state
religion in 1256 the tonic Knights were
invited to help convert the Pagan
prussians but instead they established
their own state in Northern Poland an
alliance formed between the Polish and
the lithuanians and in the end they
defeated the tonic
knights in 1569 Poland signed the union
of Lubin together with the grand duy of
Lithuania establishing the Polish
Lithuanian Commonwealth major power in
Europe the Commonwealth had some
internal problems something that
bordering countries took advantage of
and in 1772 the first of three
partitions happened to the Commonwealth
the second happened in 1793 and the
final in
1795 the lands and people that were once
part of the Commonwealth were now ruled
by Prussia Russia and Austria and Poland
as a country disappeared completely from
the map and didn't come back back until
after the first world war in 1918
November 11th after More Than A Century
of foreign rule an independent Polish
state was finally restored and Joseph
pudi is named the chief of state in 1939
World War II began with Germany's
invasion of Poland on September 1st and
the entire world knows what horrible
things happened here in 1945 the second
world war ended and after being betrayed
by their allies in the jalta conference
where the US and UK decided to split up
Europe and leave Poland on the wrong
side Poland's border shifted westwards
and the country became a communist state
under Soviet
influence in 1980 Gdansk Shipyard
strikes led to the formation of the
solidary labor movement in 1989 the
signing of the Roundtable agreement
resulted in the first free election in
Poland since
1928 and communism began to collapse in
Poland in 1999 Poland joined NATO so and
in 2004 Poland joined the European union
now Poland is an important member of
both these organizations much thanks to
their geographic location on the edge of
NATO's Eastern flank and the history of
invasions of the country has clearly
made the Polish heavily invested into
securing its borders and in the last
couple of years Poland has really
started investing into its defense with
the estimated numbers coming from NATO
showing Poland spending the most defense
exponentials out of all NATO members
numbers and Poland even said that
they're going to increase this number
even further spending upward of 5% of it
total's GDP on defense something tells
me that Poland just does everything to
be ready for anything and to be able to
hold their own ground no matter what the
future looks like with it history of
invasion oppression and a whole lot of
awful things Poland prepares for the
worst other countries that join NATO and
the European Union for example I kind of
get the feeling they probably think that
the aliances will help them in a crisis
while Poland has a history of being let
down by their allies when they needed
them the most so they're preparing to be
alone again all this history has really
turned Poland its people into true
Warriors and that mindset in turn has
led to a country that booming even in
hard times it will be very interesting
to follow this country in the future and
I will not be surprised if this will be
one of if not the strongest force in
Europe in the future now let's go and
learn about a new country in the World
by clicking one of the videos on your
screen right
[Music]
now